There are a couple of points to note here :

Network Access control lists are applicable at the subnet level, so any instance in the subnet with an associated NACL will follow rules of NACL. That's not the case with security groups, security groups has to be assigned explicitly to the instance.
By default your default vpc, will have a default Network Access Control List which would allow all traffic , both inbound and outbound. If you want to restrict access at subnet level it's a good practice to create a custom NACL and edit it with the rules of your choice and while editing you could also edit subnet associations , where you associate a subnet with this custom NACL, now any instance in this subnet will start following NACL rules
NACLs are stateless unlike security groups. Security groups are statefull ,if you add an inbound rule say for port 80, it is automatically allowed out, meaning outbound rule for that particular port need not be explicitly added. But in NACLs you need to provide explicit inbound and outbound rules
In security groups you cannot deny traffic from a particular instance, by default everything is denied. You can set rules only to allow. Where as in NACLs you can set rules both to deny and allow. There by denying and allowing only the instances of your choice. You get to take more granular decisions.
Security groups evaluate all the rules in them before allowing a traffic . NACLs do it in the number order, from top to bottom like, if your rule #0 says allow all HTTP traffic and your rule #100 says don't allow HTTP traffic from ip address 10.0.2.156 , it's will not be able to deny the traffic, because rule #0 has already allowed traffic. So it's good practice to have your deny rules first in NACL and followed by allow rules. AWS best practice is to number your rules in increment of 100s in NACL. By deny rules first I mean, specifying narrow deny rules, like for specific ports only. And then write your allow rules.



Security Groups supports only Allow rules.

Network ACL supports Allow and Deny rules.

Security Group is Stateful, any changes applied to an incoming rules is automatically applied to an outgoing rule.

Network ACL is Stateless changes applied to incoming will not be applied to Security Group.

Security groups are tied to an instance.

Network ACL are tied to the subnet.

Secuity group is the first layer of the defense.

Network ACL is the second layer of the defense.



Security Group by default is ‘Deny All’ inbound. ACL by default is ‘Allow All’ both inbound & outbound.
In ACL you can specify both allow and deny. In SG, you can only specify allow entries.
Security Groups are stateful, i.e- if you open inbound port 80, it will automatically open outbound port 80 as well. In an ACL, you have to manually do this for both inbound and outbound i.e -stateless.
Security Groups are applied to individual resources. i.e- EC2, RDS etc. ACL is applied on a network level i.e- VPC.
ACLs take precedence as traffic hits it before the Security group. If port 80 is blocked on the ACL, it will not come through to the security group even if it is allowed on the security group.

